README.md, before:

<p align="center">
   <a href="https://www.neopower.digital/">   
     <img src="./public/images/neopower-logo.png" alt="Neopower logo">
   </a>
</p>

# ink!athon dApp

This is a repository with a base implementation for Polkadot projects using [use-inkathon](https://github.com/scio-labs/use-inkathon) react library that can be used as a template for creating a new project. \
This project uses [MUI](https://mui.com/) component library.

# Table of contents

1. [Running the template](#running-the-template)
2. [Use-inkathon library](#use-inkathon-library)
   1. [Initial configuration](#initial-configuration)
   2. [Wallet connection](#wallet-connection)
      1. [Connecting wallet state](#connecting-wallet-state)
   3. [Switch chain](#switch-chain)
      1. [Switching chain state](#switching-chain-state)
      2. [Adding a Substrate Chain](#adding-a-substrate-chain)
   4. [Contract interaction](#contract-interaction)
      1. [Configuration](#%EF%B8%8F-configuration)
      2. [Contract query](#contract-query)
      3. [Contract transaction](#contract-transaction)

# Running the template

```python
#In first place we have to install the required dependencies
yarn
#Now we can run develompent server
yarn dev
#Open http://localhost:3000 to see the dApp
```

# Use-inkathon library

## Initial configuration

To install [use-inkathon](https://github.com/scio-labs/use-inkathon) library we have to run the following command

```
yarn add @scio-labs/use-inkathon
```

Then we have to set the **dApp name** and the **default chain**. The library provides configurations constants with some of the main Substrate chains

```tsx
import { alephzeroTestnet, UseInkathonProvider } from "@scio-labs/use-inkathon";

export default function myApp({ Component, pageProps }) {
  return (
    <UseInkathonProvider
      appName="inkathon-dApp"
      defaultChain={alephzeroTestnet}
    >
      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </UseInkathonProvider>
  );
}
```

With these configurations we are set to start using the library

<br>

## Wallet connection

The next button will allow you to connect/disconnect a wallet in the dApp using Substrate based wallets

<details>
<summary>🚧 Important considerations 🚧</summary>
<br>
<p>
 Intuitively we would think that to determine if the user is connected we should use "isConnected" property, until now this doesn't work as expected so we use "activeAccount" instead
</p>
</details>

```jsx
const { connect, disconnect, activeAccount, isConnected } = useInkathon();
return (
  <Button onClick={activeAccount ? disconnect : connect}>
    {activeAccount ? "Disconnect" : "Connect"}
  </Button>
);
```

### 📘 Extras

#### Connecting wallet state

We can manage the connection status with `isConnecting` property and show a loading spinner while the user is connecting the wallet. \
This code block also includes code refactoring to have a more readable component

```jsx
const { connect, disconnect, activeAccount, isConnecting } = useInkathon();
const [connectionHandler, setConnectionHandler] = useState();
useEffect(() => {
  setConnectionHandler({
    text: activeAccount ? "Disconnect" : "Connect",
    handler: activeAccount ? disconnect : connect,
  });
}, [activeAccount, connect, disconnect]);
return (
  <Button onClick={connectionHandler.handler} disabled={isConnecting}>
    {isConnecting ? <CircularProgress /> : connectionHandler.text}
  </Button>
);
```

<br>

## Switch chain

Use-inkathon library provides an array of Substrate chains configurations in order to be able to switch between them. This constant is called `allSubstrateChains` and will be useful for building our chain selector

```jsx
import { allSubstrateChains } from "@scio-labs/use-inkathon";
const SubstrateChainSelectItems = (
  <>
    {
      allSubstrateChains.map((chain: SubstrateChain, index: number) => (
    <MenuItem
      key={index}
      value={chain.network}
    >
      {chain.name}
    </MenuItem>
    ));
    }
  </>
);
```

Now that we have Substrate chains mapped to the Select item component we can build the final component. \
`useInkathon` hook provides `activeChain` property that contains all the offline chain data, this is all the information that can be provided without connecting to the corresponding RPC. We will use this to know which is the selected chain. \
The hook also provides `switchActiveChain` method that allows to change the selected chain by providing a SubstrateChain object as a parameter.

```jsx
import { useInkathon } from "@scio-labs/use-inkathon";
const { switchActiveChain, activeChain } = useInkathon();
const handleSwitchChain = (event) => {
  const selectedChain = allSubstrateChains.find(
    (chain) => chain.network === event.target.value
  );
  if (selectedChain && switchActiveChain) {
    switchActiveChain(selectedChain);
  }
};
return (
  <FormControl>
    <InputLabel id="switch-chain-label">Switch chain</InputLabel>
    <Select
      labelId="switch-chain-label"
      value={activeChain?.network}
      label="Switch chain"
      onChange={handleSwitchChain}
    >
      <SubstrateChainSelectItems />
    </Select>
  </FormControl>
);
```

### 📘 Extras

#### Switching chain state

Similar to what is done with [Connecting wallet state](#connecting-wallet-state) we can use `isConnecting` property to handle the switching chain state

```jsx
import { useInkathon } from "@scio-labs/use-inkathon";
const { switchActiveChain, activeChain, isConnecting } = useInkathon();
/* handleSwitchChain code */
return (
  <FormControl disabled={isConnecting}>
    <InputLabel id="switch-chain-label">Switch chain</InputLabel>
    <Select
      labelId="switch-chain-label"
      value={activeChain?.network}
      label="Switch chain"
      onChange={handleSwitchChain}
      disabled={isConnecting}
    >
      <SubstrateChainSelectItems />
    </Select>
  </FormControl>
);
```

#### Adding a Substrate Chain

In case we need to connect to a chain that is not inlcuded in `allSubstrateChains` constant, we can add a new one as showed in the following code block with [Acala Network](https://acala.network/) example

```ts
import { SubstrateChain, allSubstrateChains } from "@scio-labs/use-inkathon";

export const acalaNetwork: SubstrateChain = {
  network: "acala",
  name: "Acala",
  rpcUrls: ["wss://acala-rpc.dwellir.com"],
  explorerUrls: [
    "https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/explorer?rpc=wss://acala-rpc.dwellir.com",
  ],
  testnet: false,
  faucetUrls: [
    "https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/accounts?wss://acala-rpc.dwellir.com",
  ],
};

export const inkathonDappChains: SubstrateChain[] = [
  ...allSubstrateChains,
  acalaNetwork,
];
```

Now we can modify our switch chain component to use our new `inkathonDappChains` constant

```tsx
const SubstrateChainSelectItems = (
  <>
    {
      inkathonDappChains.map((chain: SubstrateChain, index: number) => (
    <MenuItem
      key={index}
      value={chain.network}
    >
      {chain.name}
    </MenuItem>
    ));
    }
  </>
);

const handleSwitchChain = (event) => {
  const selectedChain = inkathonDappChains.find(
    (chain) => chain.network === event.target.value
  );
  if (selectedChain && switchActiveChain) {
    switchActiveChain(selectedChain);
  }
};

/*Form control with Select chain*/
```

## Contract Interaction

### ⚙️ Configuration

To interact with a contract we have to register the contracts deployments in the app initialization. We will define `getDeployments` function to define the contracts we will use in our application. \
We have to include our contract json file in our application so we can get the abi in our configuration function, just like it is done [greeter contract](./src/contracts/alephzero-testnet/greeter-abi.json)

```ts
import { SubstrateDeployment, alephzeroTestnet } from "@scio-labs/use-inkathon";
import abi from "~/contracts/alephzero-testnet/greeter-abi.json";

export const getDeployments = async (): Promise<SubstrateDeployment[]> => {
  return [
    {
      contractId: "greeter",
      networkId: alephzeroTestnet.network,
      abi: abi,
      address: "5HUMq3LnzEiP9dXK8qBRjnucaezuNy1w1yzPEeNJpKe3Ttj7",
    },
  ];
};
```

Then we have to add the function call in the `deployments` attribute in the use-inkathon provider

```tsx
import { alephzeroTestnet, UseInkathonProvider } from "@scio-labs/use-inkathon";
import { getDeployments } from "~/utils/web3/deployed-contracts";

export default function myApp({ Component, pageProps }) {
  return (
    <UseInkathonProvider
      appName="inkathon-dApp"
      defaultChain={alephzeroTestnet}
      connectOnInit={true}
      deployments={getDeployments()}
    >
      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </UseInkathonProvider>
  );
}
```

### Contract query

First we will get our contract and initialize a state string to store the contract value. To get our contract we wil use `useRegisteredContract` hook with the id that we've set to the contract deployment [previously](#⚙️-configuration)

```tsx
const { contract } = useRegisteredContract("greeter");
const [greeterMessage, setGreeterMessage] = useState<string>();
```

We will define a function to fetch our contract greeting.

```tsx
const fetchGreeting = async () => {
  if (!contract || !api || !contractAddress) return;

  const result = await contractQuery(api, "", contract, "greet");
  const message = unwrapResultOrDefault<string>(result, "Error");

  setGreeterMessage(message);
};

useEffect(() => {
  fetchGreeting();
}, [contract, api]);
```

And now we can display the contract value in our UI

```tsx
return (
  <>
    <h3>Greeter Contract</h3>
    <div>
      Meesage: <span className="font-bold">{greeterMessage}</span>
    </div>
  </>
);
```

### Contract Transaction

Now that we have our contract query implemented we can include the contract transaction to update the greeter message. \
First we will create a function to update the greeting using `contractTx` provided by use-inkathon library

```tsx
import { contractTx } from "@scio-labs/use-inkathon";

const updateGreeting = async () => {
  if (!activeAccount || !activeSigner || !contract || !api) return;

  await contractTx(api, activeAccount.address, contract, "setMessage", {}, [
    newMessage,
  ]);
};
```

With this function implemented we can create a `newMessage` state and use it in a text input to update the greeting message

```tsx
const [newMessage, setNewMessage] = useState<string>();

/*updateGreeting function*/

return (
  <>
    <TextField
      value={newMessage}
      onChange={(event) => setNewMessage(event.target.value)}
    />
    <Button
      onClick={updateGreeting}
    >
      "Send"
    </StyledButton>
  </>
)
```

Commit message:

RUI-72 feat: autoconnect on init section; add icons

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
   <a href="https://www.neopower.digital/">   
     <img src="./public/images/neopower-logo.png" alt="Neopower logo">
   </a>
</p>

# ink!athon dApp

This is a repository with a base implementation for Polkadot projects using [use-inkathon](https://github.com/scio-labs/use-inkathon) react library that can be used as a template for creating a new project. \
This project uses [MUI](https://mui.com/) component library.

# Table of contents

1. [Running the template](#running-the-template)
2. [Use-inkathon library](#use-inkathon-library)
   1. [Initial configuration](#initial-configuration)
   2. [Wallet connection](#wallet-connection)
      1. [Connecting wallet state](#connecting-wallet-state)
      2. [Autoconnect on init](#autoconnect-on-init)
   3. [Switch chain](#switch-chain)
      1. [Switching chain state](#switching-chain-state)
      2. [Adding a Substrate Chain](#adding-a-substrate-chain)
   4. [Contract interaction](#contract-interaction)
      1. [Configuration](#%EF%B8%8F-configuration)
      2. [Contract query](#contract-query)
      3. [Contract transaction](#contract-transaction)

# Running the template

```python
#In first place we have to install the required dependencies
yarn
#Now we can run develompent server
yarn dev
#Open http://localhost:3000 to see the dApp
```

# Use-inkathon library

## Initial configuration

To install [use-inkathon](https://github.com/scio-labs/use-inkathon) library we have to run the following command

```
yarn add @scio-labs/use-inkathon
```

Then we have to set the **dApp name** and the **default chain**. The library provides configurations constants with some of the main Substrate chains

```tsx
import { alephzeroTestnet, UseInkathonProvider } from "@scio-labs/use-inkathon";

export default function myApp({ Component, pageProps }) {
  return (
    <UseInkathonProvider
      appName="inkathon-dApp"
      defaultChain={alephzeroTestnet}
    >
      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </UseInkathonProvider>
  );
}
```

With these configurations we are set to start using the library

<br>

## 🎟️ Wallet connection

The next button will allow you to connect/disconnect a wallet in the dApp using Substrate based wallets

<details>
<summary>🚧 Important considerations 🚧</summary>
<br>
<p>
 Intuitively we would think that to determine if the user is connected we should use "isConnected" property, until now this doesn't work as expected so we use "activeAccount" instead
</p>
</details>

```jsx
const { connect, disconnect, activeAccount, isConnected } = useInkathon();
return (
  <Button onClick={activeAccount ? disconnect : connect}>
    {activeAccount ? "Disconnect" : "Connect"}
  </Button>
);
```

### 📘 Extras

#### 🔋️ Connecting wallet state

We can manage the connection status with `isConnecting` property and show a loading spinner while the user is connecting the wallet. \
This code block also includes code refactoring to have a more readable component

```jsx
const { connect, disconnect, activeAccount, isConnecting } = useInkathon();
const [connectionHandler, setConnectionHandler] = useState();
useEffect(() => {
  setConnectionHandler({
    text: activeAccount ? "Disconnect" : "Connect",
    handler: activeAccount ? disconnect : connect,
  });
}, [activeAccount, connect, disconnect]);
return (
  <Button onClick={connectionHandler.handler} disabled={isConnecting}>
    {isConnecting ? <CircularProgress /> : connectionHandler.text}
  </Button>
);
```

#### 🔌️ Autoconnect on init

If we want to connect the user wallet on the app initialization we can set that in the inkathon provider with the property `connectOnInit`

```tsx
return (
  <UseInkathonProvider
    appName="inkathon-dApp"
    defaultChain={alephzeroTestnet}
    connectOnInit={true}
  >
    <Component {...pageProps} />
  </UseInkathonProvider>
);
```

<br>

## ⛓️ Switch chain

Use-inkathon library provides an array of Substrate chains configurations in order to be able to switch between them. This constant is called `allSubstrateChains` and will be useful for building our chain selector

```jsx
import { allSubstrateChains } from "@scio-labs/use-inkathon";
const SubstrateChainSelectItems = (
  <>
    {
      allSubstrateChains.map((chain: SubstrateChain, index: number) => (
    <MenuItem
      key={index}
      value={chain.network}
    >
      {chain.name}
    </MenuItem>
    ));
    }
  </>
);
```

Now that we have Substrate chains mapped to the Select item component we can build the final component. \
`useInkathon` hook provides `activeChain` property that contains all the offline chain data, this is all the information that can be provided without connecting to the corresponding RPC. We will use this to know which is the selected chain. \
The hook also provides `switchActiveChain` method that allows to change the selected chain by providing a SubstrateChain object as a parameter.

```jsx
import { useInkathon } from "@scio-labs/use-inkathon";
const { switchActiveChain, activeChain } = useInkathon();
const handleSwitchChain = (event) => {
  const selectedChain = allSubstrateChains.find(
    (chain) => chain.network === event.target.value
  );
  if (selectedChain && switchActiveChain) {
    switchActiveChain(selectedChain);
  }
};
return (
  <FormControl>
    <InputLabel id="switch-chain-label">Switch chain</InputLabel>
    <Select
      labelId="switch-chain-label"
      value={activeChain?.network}
      label="Switch chain"
      onChange={handleSwitchChain}
    >
      <SubstrateChainSelectItems />
    </Select>
  </FormControl>
);
```

### 📘 Extras

#### 🔋️ Switching chain state

Similar to what is done with [Connecting wallet state](#connecting-wallet-state) we can use `isConnecting` property to handle the switching chain state

```jsx
import { useInkathon } from "@scio-labs/use-inkathon";
const { switchActiveChain, activeChain, isConnecting } = useInkathon();
/* handleSwitchChain code */
return (
  <FormControl disabled={isConnecting}>
    <InputLabel id="switch-chain-label">Switch chain</InputLabel>
    <Select
      labelId="switch-chain-label"
      value={activeChain?.network}
      label="Switch chain"
      onChange={handleSwitchChain}
      disabled={isConnecting}
    >
      <SubstrateChainSelectItems />
    </Select>
  </FormControl>
);
```

#### ➕️ Adding a Substrate Chain

In case we need to connect to a chain that is not inlcuded in `allSubstrateChains` constant, we can add a new one as showed in the following code block with [Acala Network](https://acala.network/) example

```ts
import { SubstrateChain, allSubstrateChains } from "@scio-labs/use-inkathon";

export const acalaNetwork: SubstrateChain = {
  network: "acala",
  name: "Acala",
  rpcUrls: ["wss://acala-rpc.dwellir.com"],
  explorerUrls: [
    "https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/explorer?rpc=wss://acala-rpc.dwellir.com",
  ],
  testnet: false,
  faucetUrls: [
    "https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/accounts?wss://acala-rpc.dwellir.com",
  ],
};

export const inkathonDappChains: SubstrateChain[] = [
  ...allSubstrateChains,
  acalaNetwork,
];
```

Now we can modify our switch chain component to use our new `inkathonDappChains` constant

```tsx
const SubstrateChainSelectItems = (
  <>
    {
      inkathonDappChains.map((chain: SubstrateChain, index: number) => (
    <MenuItem
      key={index}
      value={chain.network}
    >
      {chain.name}
    </MenuItem>
    ));
    }
  </>
);

const handleSwitchChain = (event) => {
  const selectedChain = inkathonDappChains.find(
    (chain) => chain.network === event.target.value
  );
  if (selectedChain && switchActiveChain) {
    switchActiveChain(selectedChain);
  }
};

/*Form control with Select chain*/
```

## 📜️ Contract Interaction

### ⚙️ Configuration

To interact with a contract we have to register the contracts deployments in the app initialization. We will define `getDeployments` function to define the contracts we will use in our application. \
We have to include our contract json file in our application so we can get the abi in our configuration function, just like it is done [greeter contract](./src/contracts/alephzero-testnet/greeter-abi.json)

```ts
import { SubstrateDeployment, alephzeroTestnet } from "@scio-labs/use-inkathon";
import abi from "~/contracts/alephzero-testnet/greeter-abi.json";

export const getDeployments = async (): Promise<SubstrateDeployment[]> => {
  return [
    {
      contractId: "greeter",
      networkId: alephzeroTestnet.network,
      abi: abi,
      address: "5HUMq3LnzEiP9dXK8qBRjnucaezuNy1w1yzPEeNJpKe3Ttj7",
    },
  ];
};
```

Then we have to add the function call in the `deployments` attribute in the use-inkathon provider

```tsx
import { alephzeroTestnet, UseInkathonProvider } from "@scio-labs/use-inkathon";
import { getDeployments } from "~/utils/web3/deployed-contracts";

export default function myApp({ Component, pageProps }) {
  return (
    <UseInkathonProvider
      appName="inkathon-dApp"
      defaultChain={alephzeroTestnet}
      connectOnInit={true}
      deployments={getDeployments()}
    >
      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </UseInkathonProvider>
  );
}
```

### 📤️ Contract query

First we will get our contract and initialize a state string to store the contract value. To get our contract we wil use `useRegisteredContract` hook with the id that we've set to the contract deployment [previously](#⚙️-configuration)

```tsx
const { contract } = useRegisteredContract("greeter");
const [greeterMessage, setGreeterMessage] = useState<string>();
```

We will define a function to fetch our contract greeting.

```tsx
const fetchGreeting = async () => {
  if (!contract || !api || !contractAddress) return;

  const result = await contractQuery(api, "", contract, "greet");
  const message = unwrapResultOrDefault<string>(result, "Error");

  setGreeterMessage(message);
};

useEffect(() => {
  fetchGreeting();
}, [contract, api]);
```

And now we can display the contract value in our UI

```tsx
return (
  <>
    <h3>Greeter Contract</h3>
    <div>
      Meesage: <span className="font-bold">{greeterMessage}</span>
    </div>
  </>
);
```

### 📥️ Contract Transaction

Now that we have our contract query implemented we can include the contract transaction to update the greeter message. \
First we will create a function to update the greeting using `contractTx` provided by use-inkathon library

```tsx
import { contractTx } from "@scio-labs/use-inkathon";

const updateGreeting = async () => {
  if (!activeAccount || !activeSigner || !contract || !api) return;

  await contractTx(api, activeAccount.address, contract, "setMessage", {}, [
    newMessage,
  ]);
};
```

With this function implemented we can create a `newMessage` state and use it in a text input to update the greeting message

```tsx
const [newMessage, setNewMessage] = useState<string>();

/*updateGreeting function*/

return (
  <>
    <TextField
      value={newMessage}
      onChange={(event) => setNewMessage(event.target.value)}
    />
    <Button
      onClick={updateGreeting}
    >
      "Send"
    </StyledButton>
  </>
)
```
